Synthesis and Characterization Laboratories


General Security Rules:
Always wear gloves, a lab coat and protective eyewear, as well as long pants, socks and closed sturdy shoes. On the contrary, avoid gloves and lab coats outside the lab (unless warranted by an exceptional situation for your own safety), take them off to avoid touching doors also used without protective gear.
Wash your hands as you leave the laboratory.
Do not bring in any food or beverage inside the laboratory.
Never store products in the drawers, fume hoods or on the workbenches. Check the designated storage space by CAS number in the Quartzy inventory.
Temporary storage in appropriate bottles of solvents or samples is only allowed with proper labelling following the format « YourInitials-AAMMJJ » and the chemical product name+CAS number or sample reference to your lab book number+page. This procedure will be upgraded in the near future to implement the new SIMDUT standards.

Fume hood:
Always keep the back as clear as possible for proper airflow evacuation.
Glassware that held volatile compounds should be left in the fume hood at least overnight after proper rinsing and/or cleaning, even if it ultimately goes into a trash can.

Shared Ressources:
We need to share the work space, thus wash the workbenches and the fume hood after using them, every day.
You always need to ask permission before borrowing glassware and fume hoods belonging to another group (gr. Allen and gr. Boudreau).
You should never put back a defective apparatus or articles, it’s really annoying; you need to notify the rest of the group by email and get it repaired or replaced.

Inventory Management of the Chemical Products:
When you receive a new product, you need to add it to the inventory.  You need to write down its reception date, apply the "CA" sticker and the location where it is stored on the product’s label.
When you run out of product, you need to:
Prepare a new order and add a note of emptiness in the Quartzy inventory.

Waste
Regarding the used solvants’ recycling bins, you need to:
Learn the proper procedures for waste disposal. Note that disposal costs of the red trash can for solid toxic waste are high, so it should not be used for regular waste, but safety first. Specifically, only the gloves used to handle cadmium-based nanosemiconductors or the Cd precursors, are to be thrown into the red trash can.
Bring the waste containers under the fume hood to pour the used liquids.
Always close them after using and clean them when needed.
Do not overfill the containers, watch the subtle line for the maximum.
Engage the pick up procedure when it is full.
You need to make sure you deactivate for 24h the Piranha solutions before putting it in the trash bin.  Also, it is preferable to leave the container in the fume hood with the little cap open to avoid suppression risks.
Use the characterization apparatus (POP-0314).
Use the reservation boards provided for this purpose.
Respect the other group’s members’ reservations.
Fill in the user notebook scrupulously.
